in this video I'd like to convey to you
the main intuitions behind how
regularization works and we'll also
write down the cost function that we'll
use when we're using regularization with
the hand-drawn examples that we'll have
on these slides I think I'll be able to
convey part of the intuition but an even
better way to see for yourself how
regularization works is if you implement
it and sort of see it work for yourself
and if you do there promo exercises
after this you get a chance to sort of
see regularization in action for
yourself
so here's the intuition in the previous
video we saw that if we were to fit a
quadratic function to this data it'd
give us a pretty good fit to the data
whereas if we were to fit an overly high
order polynomial we end up with a curve
they may fit the training set very well
that really not be a not.but overfit the
data poorly and not generalize well
consider the following suppose we were
to penalize and make the parameters
theta 3 and theta 4 really small here's
what I mean here's our optimization
objective but here's the optimization
problem where we minimize our usual
squared error cost function let's say I
take this objective and I modify it and
add to it plus 1000 theta 3 squared plus
1000 theta 4 squared 1000 I'm just
writing down the sum as some huge number
now if we were to minimize this function
well the only way to make this new cost
function small is if theta 3 and theta 4
are small right because otherwise you
know if you have a thousand times theta
3 this disc over this new cost function
is going to be paid so when you minimize
this new function we're going to end up
with theta 3 close to 0 and theta 4
close to 0 and that's as if we're
getting rid of these two terms over
there and if we do that well then if
theta 3 and theta 4 equals 0 then we're
basically left with a quadratic function
and so we'll end up with a fit to the
data there's you know a quadratic
function
Plus maybe tiny contributions from small
terms theta 3 theta folder that may be
very close to zero
mommy and so we end up with essentially
a quadratic function which is good
because this is a much better hypothesis
in this particular example we looked at
the effect of penalizing two of the
parameter values being large more
generally here's the idea behind
regularization the idea is that if we
have small values for the parameters
then having small values for the
parameters will somehow will usually
correspond to having a simpler
hypothesis so for our last example we
penalize just data 3 and theta 4 and
when both of these were close to zero we
wound up with a much simpler hypothesis
that was essentially a quadratic
function but more broadly if we penalize
all the parameters usually that we can
think of that as trying to give us a
simple hypothesis as well because when
you know these parameters are close to
zero in this example that gave us a
quadratic function but more generally is
possible to show that having smaller
values of the parameters corresponds to
usually smoother functions as well
that's simpler and which are therefore
also less prone to overfitting I realize
that the reasoning for why having all
the parameters be small Y that
corresponds to simple hypotheses I
realized that reasoning may not be
entirely clear to you right now and it
is kind of hard to explain unless you
implement it yourself and see it for
yourself but I hope that the example of
having theta 3 and theta 4 be small and
how that gave us a simpler hypothesis I
hope that helps explain why and these
give some intuition as to why this might
be true let's look at a specific example
for housing price prediction we may have
our hundred features that we talked
about where maybe x1 is the size X is
the number of bedrooms x3 is the number
of floors and so on and we may have a
hundred features
and unlike the polynomial example we
don't know right we don't know that
theta 3 theta 4 are the high order
polynomial terms so we have just a bag
or if you have just a set of 100
features is hard to pick an advance
which are the ones that are less likely
to be relevant so we have you know 100
100 101 parameters and we don't know
which ones to pick tunes we don't know
which parameters to pick to try the
string so in regularization what we're
going to do is take our cost function
here's my cost function for linear
regression and what I'm going to do is
modify this cost function to shrink all
of my parameters because you know I I
don't know which one or two to try that
string so I'm going to modify my cost
function to add a term at the end like
so let me add square brackets here as
well I'm going to add an extra
regularization term at the end to
strength every single parameter and so
this term will tend to shrink all of my
parameters theta 1 theta 2 theta 3 up to
theta 100 by the way by convention the
summation here in starts from 1 so I'm
not actually going to penalize theta 0
being large that's sort of a convention
that the sum is from I equals 1 through
n rather than I equals 0 through n but
in practice it makes very little
difference and whether you include you
know theta 0 or not in practice make
very little difference in results but by
convention usually we regularize only
theta 1 through theta one hundred
writing down our regular rise
optimization objective our regularized
cost function again here this US J of
theta where this term on the right is
the regularization term and lambda here
is called the regularization parameter
and what lambda does is it controls a
trade-off between two different goals
the first go captured by the first term
in the objective is that we would like
to train you is that we would like to
fit the training data well we would like
to train fit the training set well and
the second goal is we want to keep the
parameters small and that's captured by
the second term by the regularization
objective and by the regularization term
and what lambda the regularization
parameter does is it controls the
trade-off between these two goals
between the goal of fitting the training
set well and the goal of keeping the
parameter small and therefore keeping
the hypothesis relatively simple to
avoid overfitting for our housing price
prediction example whereas previously if
we had fit a very high order polynomial
we may have wound up with a very Wiggly
or curvy function like this if you still
fit a high order polynomial with all the
polynomial features in there but instead
you just make sure to use this sort of
regular rise objective then what you can
get out is in fact a curve that isn't
quite a quadratic function but is much
smoother and much simpler and maybe a
curve like the magenta line that you
know fits that gives a much better
hypothesis for this data
once again I realize it can be a bit
difficult to see why shrinking the
parameters can have this effect but if
you implement this album yourself with
regularization you will be able to see
this effect firsthand
in regularized linear regression if the
parameter if the regularization
parameter lambda is set to be very large
then what will happen is we will end up
penalizing the parameters theta 1 theta
2 theta 3 theta 4 very high D that is if
our hypothesis is this one down at the
bottom and if we end up penalizing theta
1 theta 2 theta 3 theta 4 very heavily
then we'll end up with all of these
parameters close to 0 right
theta 1 we close to 0 theta 2 equals 0
theta 3 and theta 4 will end up being
close to 0 and that we do that is as if
we're getting rid of these terms and the
hypothesis so that we're just left with
a hypothesis that looks like that it
says that well housing prices are equal
to theta 0 and that is akin to fitting a
flat horizontal straight line to the
data and this is an example of
underfitting and in particular this
hypothesis this straight line it just
fails to fit the training set well it's
just a flat straight line it doesn't go
you know go near it doesn't go anywhere
near most of our training examples and
another way of saying this is that this
hypothesis has too strong a
preconception or too high a bias that
housing prices are just equal to theta 0
and despite the clear data to the
contrary
you know chooses to fint a sort of flat
line just a horace flat horizontal line
i didn't draw that very well if it's
just a horizontal flat line to the data
so for regularization to work well some
care should be taken to choose a good
choice for the regularization parameter
lambda as well and when we talk about
model selection later in this course
we'll talk about a way of a variety of
ways for automatically choosing the
regularization parameter lambda as well
so that's the idea behind regularization
and the cost function we'll use in order
to use regularization in the next two
videos let's take these ideas and apply
them to linear regression and to
logistic regression so that we can then
get them to avoid overfitting problems